what are these terms :
Declarative , imperative , implicit , explicit . 

what are these in general terms , why they are called like this , give some good examples  to understnad easily , give the meanings in telugu with telugu examples , what  are these when come into programming , give some good simple examples to understsnd easilyy






1. Declarative
General Meaning: "Declarative" means describing what you want to happen, without specifying the exact steps to make it happen. It’s like giving instructions by focusing on the outcome rather than the process.

Why It’s Called Declarative: The term "declarative" comes from the word "declare," meaning you state or declare the final result you want to achieve.


Example:

Think of declarative as saying what you want without getting into the details of how it should be done.

Real-Life Example:
    Cooking Order: You tell someone, "I want a pizza with mushrooms and cheese."
        Here, you’ve declared what you want (a pizza with mushrooms and cheese), but you haven’t specified the steps to make it.
    The cook will figure out the exact recipe and steps to make the pizza.

Travel Planning: "I want to go to Paris."
This specifies the destination but not the details of how to get there. You’re declaring the outcome (arriving in Paris), not the steps like booking flights or checking passports.




Programming Example: In programming, declarative code tells what should happen but not how to do it.

For example, in SQL (a declarative language), you might write:
SELECT * FROM students WHERE grade > 90;

This statement declares that you want all students with grades above 90, but it doesn't specify how the database should fetch them.

JavaScript Example: React’s render() method is also declarative:

const element = <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;
ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById("root"));
Here, you declare that you want to render an <h1> with "Hello, World!" inside the root div, but you don’t specify how React should do it internally.



In Telugu: Meaning: "ఏమి కావాలో చెప్పడం, కాకపోతే దానిని ఎలా సాధించాలో చెప్పకపోవడం."

Example: "ఈ గదిని చక్కగా సర్దండి" అని చెప్పడం. (What needs to be done: the room should look tidy; how to do it isn’t specified).

























2. Imperative
General Meaning: "Imperative" means giving step-by-step instructions on how to achieve a result. You specify each action that should be taken in the order it should happen.

Why It’s Called Imperative: The term comes from the word "imperative," which means giving commands or orders directly.

2. Imperative
Imperative is all about giving detailed, step-by-step instructions on how to achieve something.

Real-Life Example:
Recipe Instructions: "To make a pizza, start by preheating the oven, then prepare the dough, add sauce, place toppings, and bake for 20 minutes."
    This is imperative because it tells you exactly how to make the pizza, step by step.
Driving Directions: "Drive straight for two miles, turn left at the second stoplight, then take the third right."
    Here, you’re providing specific instructions on how to get to a destination rather than just saying, "Take me to the park."




Programming Example: In programming, imperative code specifies how something should happen. In JavaScript, for example:


const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
let result = [];
for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
  if (arr[i] > 2) {
    result.push(arr[i]);
  }
}
Here, you specify each step: looping through arr, checking if each item is greater than 2, and adding it to result if it is.

In Telugu: Meaning: "ప్రతి దశను వివరించడం లేదా దిశానిర్దేశం ఇవ్వడం."

Example: "ఈ గదిని క్లీన్ చేయడానికి ముందుగా మంచం సర్దండి, తర్వాత మెజ్ సర్దండి, ఆపై పుస్తకాలు అమర్చండి" అని చెప్పడం. (Specifies each step in detail).








3. Explicit
General Meaning: "Explicit" means something that is clearly stated and requires no assumptions to understand. It’s clear and direct.

Why It’s Called Explicit: The term comes from the idea of something being "expressed" or clearly revealed.

Explicit means something is clearly stated and leaves no room for interpretation.

Real-Life Example:
Safety Instructions: "Keep away from children."
    This is explicit because it clearly tells you what to do (keep something out of children’s reach).

Policy Statement: "This pool is closed after 8 PM."
    This is explicit because it clearly states the rule with no assumptions or indirect meaning.

Bank Notice: "Minimum balance required is $500."
    This is explicit; it states the requirement outright.





Programming Example: In programming, explicit code makes intentions clear. If you’re defining a function to add two numbers, you might name it addNumbers(a, b), which clearly states what it does:

function addNumbers(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
The function name addNumbers is explicit—it tells exactly what the function does.

In Telugu: Meaning: "వివరంగా చెప్పడం లేదా స్పష్టంగా ఉండటం."

Example: "పదవీకాలం 12 నెలలు" అని తారీఖుల్ని వివరంగా చెప్పడం. (Gives clear, specific details).







4. Implicit
General Meaning: "Implicit" means something that is understood without being directly stated. It relies on context or prior understanding.

Why It’s Called Implicit: The term comes from the idea of "implying" something, where you don’t need to state it directly.


Implicit means something that is understood without being directly stated. It’s implied through context.

Real-Life Example:
Body Language: If someone keeps looking at their watch during a conversation, they’re implicitly signaling they might need to leave soon, even if they haven’t said it outright.

Social Context: At a fancy restaurant, the dress code might be implicitly understood to be formal. It’s not written out or directly stated, but it’s understood based on context.

Unspoken Rule: You’re at a library, and everyone is silent. There’s an implicit rule that people should be quiet, even if no one says, "Please be quiet."


Programming Example: In programming, implicit behavior is when something happens automatically, without the programmer needing to specify it.

For example, in JavaScript, a return statement is implicit in arrow functions with single expressions:
const square = x => x * x;
Here, x * x is implicitly returned.

In Telugu: Meaning: "అర్ధం చేసుకోవడం, కానీ ప్రత్యక్షంగా చెప్పకపోవడం."

Example: ఒకరితో "తర్వాత కలుద్దాం" అని చెప్పడం అంటే మీరు త్వరగా వెళ్ళాలనుకుంటున్నట్లు అర్థం అవుతుంది, కానీ మీరు ప్రత్యక్షంగా చెప్పలేదు. (Something implied but not directly stated).